1) Convert the description of the (scene to viewing coordinates) , which includes the position and orientation 
of the projection plane ---> view plane similar to camera film plane .

2) Convert and project the viewing coordinates into projection coordinates of teh 2D clippig region 
selected - called the view volume and defined as a volume of space enclosed in clipping planes.

3) Transform viewing-coordinates(between 0 to 1) to normalized-coordinates(between -1 to 1),
clipping off parts of the scene outside teh view volume.

4) Map normalized-coordinates to device-coordinates .


MC --> Modeling Transformation ---> Window Coordinate --> Viewing Transformation --> Viewing coordinate 
--> Projection Transformation----> Projection coordinates --> Normalization Transformations and clipping 
---> Normalized coordinate ---> viewport Transformation ---> Device Coordinates

Modeling Transformation --> transformations applied to object(more precisely the data representing 
the objects in the world coordinate system) prior to viewing are called modeling transformations 
These include instance transformations such as :

1) Translation 
2) Scaling 
3) Rotation 

Viewing Transformations ---> These transformations are applied to teh desired object to specify 
the observer viewing position and the position of the projection plane, which we think of in analogy 
with the camera film plane. It consists of defining view volume.

3) Projection Transformations ---> convert viewing coordinates description of the scene to 
coordinate positions on the output device.

---Parallel projection : parallel lines are transformed into parallel lines can be orthogonal or oblique .
  1) Otrthogonal projection :projection lines are perpendincular to the view plane .
  2) Oblique parallel projections: projection lines are all parallel and not perpendicular to teh view plane .
    1) Cavalier Projection : angle=45 degrees 
    2) Cabinet projection: 63.4 degrees/tan (angle)=2
    
  3) perspective projection does not conserve parallel lines nor objects proportions :
    1) Frustum is the view volume between near and far clipping planes, and has the shape of a truncated pyramid.
    
  Normalization Transformation: The view volume is mapped to unit volume in the normalized projection coordinate system.
  
  Workstation Transformation : Finally normalized projection coordinates are converted to device coordinates 
  for display .
  
  
